Welcome back.
We're going to start setting up postscripts on our computer so that just like we did with servers of
Front-End we're going to have a terminal that's running our front end and a back and that is running
our server but also another terminal that is running a database because as you remember these are just
computers running somewhere in the same way that we ran our server on our computer.
We can also run our database on our computer and in this video we're going to get our set up with postscripts.
Now Mongo D-B has gotten popular.
However nothing beats a relational database for really developing your knowledge of databases.
Once you understand relational databases it gives you really really good tools and mental models to
work with Mongo D-B Mongo DD is very very simple.
You can think of it as a face on data structure where we just have Jaison that looks like an object
and we store that information there with as well and relational databases.
It's more complex than that.
So if you understand this you are miles ahead when it comes to understanding databases.
So we're going to be focusing on that because the principles are still the same for Mongo D-B.
All right.
So let's get postscripts set up on our computer.
The first thing we want to do is download something called a gooey.
So a graphical user interface for postscripts and this exists for pretty much any database out there.
I like PC quoll because it's free.
It's really really good for Mac and it's very light and simple.
I'll also make sure to add notes on how to download something like this and post postscripts in general
if you're using a Windows machine but otherwise just click on the download link.
Will be completely fast.
Just open it up and you'll have something like this that are going to be using throughout the course.
But there's many many options and can take a look for it.
You just search for progress as well.
And once the happy sequel installed you'll have it in your application folder and you can follow along.
Now let's go back to the terminal in order to have postscripts installed there's many many ways and
again I'll provide some notes on how you can do it.
But the best way especially Omak is to use Brue which we've already talked about.
Every time you do something with homebrew again it's a way to download packages from the Internet on
your terminal.
You always want to make sure that you do a brew update to make sure that everything is updated.
And also a group doctor was just make sure everything is working on your system
that's clear that perfect.
Once you have that set up we're going to just say Brue install
post-crisis skua and this will install for us.
Postscripts and you see over here that I already have postcards installed.
But if it's your first time Ill run through the commands and then actually at the end tell you exactly
how to start using it.
But in our case also Stelly will be much easier to start postscripts.
You need to do brew services start postscripts and don't worry this isn't postscripts specific any database
they are downloading you're essentially downloading the software and then you want to start the service.
Each one has its own commands but it's as simple as Googling and figuring out how to run the database.
So we've started postscripts Eskew all it looks like.
I've already started the service and just to show you if I actually do stop here it will stop the terrorists
service
and just to start again and you can see that it's starting now in order for us to use postscripts we
need to create a database.
And the way we do that is to use the Create D-B command that has come up once we've installed postscripts.
And here we can call it whatever we want.
So let's call that test.
It's going to create the D-B And there you go.
Here's a quote part.
If I go back to my PC he will open this up when we close this.
I have over here piece sequel.
And it asks for the host which is the link to where the database is located.
In my case it's located at my localhost right.
It's running on my computer.
So you want it to be localhost and the port number.
This is the default poor number of 5:43 to remember how we had port three thousand three thousand one
for the front end and backend.
It's similar to that.
It's opening up a port for it to listen to a database.
And this is the standard port for postscripts that you'll see.
So when I did the Started progress and create D-B the default or 5 4 3 2 was already set.
I can actually set what ports and change it up but we want to keep everything standard so we'll keep
it the way it is.
If I now go to the database and we call that tests so again we'll do test database hit connect.
All right.
We're connected to the database but there's not much in here as there.
But at least we know that we're connected to localhost test.
And another way to connect to this remember this is a gooey a graphical user interface and I'm showing
you this because it's really good for demo purposes but I wanted to get comfortable working with the
terminals well in order to do the same thing we just did with the Guti we can type in PSU Well again
which is a command that we'll get when we install postscripts and we'll say which database we want to
connect to.
In our case will be the test.
And there you go.
Just like when we run node and it changes terminals.
Now we're inside of postscripts that's running on our computer but we don't know any commands yet.
Dewey So in the next video we're going to learn some bascule commands and finally create some tables
in our postscripts database.
I'll see that one by.